hi I'm Jennifer Takaki welcome to this
edition of the pickle Club TV we're in
Soho New York which is known for it not
only its upscale shopping but also as an
artists colony so we're in the house of
the author of well preserved her name is
Eugenia bone and she's going to teach us
the ins and outs of canning as she makes
her pickled asparagus so we're gonna
have pickled asparagus and the way I'd
like to do it do it at the same time as
you're cooking whatever is in season you
know for dinner so instead of buying one
pound of asparagus to eat for dinner
tonight I bought two pounds there's two
kinds of canning for the shelf water
bath canning which is boiling for a
prescribed amount of time and pressure
canning which is using controlled steam
to bring the temperature up high enough
many pickled foods can be safely
what about cans and it'll kill or
sterilize spoilers funghi yeasts molds
and bacteria those are the ones that
spoil food and when we pickle we are
acidifying we're creating that acidic
environment that the spoilers don't like
and you can go onto the internet and
find the USDA pH counts for all the
vegetables and fruits and stuff and
it'll tell you if the pH is higher than
4.6 you can't water baths can it unless
you acidify it we're gonna do a simple
pickle pickled asparagus and I'm not
doing anything fancy it's a real
straight-up recipe these are the parts
of the jar the glass jar the bands and a
flat lid with a rubberized flange you
can reuse the jars and the bands but you
cannot reuse the lids if it's used once
that it's just not gonna seal again as
well so new lids you buy these and
twelve packs I've sterilized this jar
you boil it for 10 minutes so what we do
with the lid is you don't boil it you
don't need to sterilize it but you do
need to soften that rubber
flange depending on the size of jar you
have you know I
you cut to fit into your jar I use these
little tops because all the stems I'm
going to make soup later so I'm just
going to blanch these the idea being
that if you blanch them it stops the
enzymatic action and will hold color
once it comes back up to a boil I will
put them on this ice and and will let
them cool yes so we're going we're just
packing these nice little blanched
asparagus bits but ideally you're going
to really tuck them in so that they have
a minimum amount of floating so then I
have a little vinegar and water solution
you cannot use like a homemade vinegar
when you're pickling unless you know the
acidity is five percent or greater
because the acetic acid is what does the
job of preserving so you don't want a
boil there's some salt in here and some
garlic hot pepper flakes I've got
various little seeds cumin seed all that
flavoring is personal and then cover it
with the solution sometimes you have to
look for air pockets that can be forms
you want to make it as easy as possible
for the heat to push all the air out so
you need like you know anywhere from a
quarter of an inch to three-quarters of
an inch of head room at the top you have
to have some place for the liquid to
boil up you wipe the rims you set on the
lid it's got this softened rubberized
flange but you don't a hard boil this
because to be honest the flange is not
very thick then you screw on the band
fingertip tight okay fingertip tight
this is important if you crank it then
you make it much harder for the air to
escape it can undermine your seal then
you put it into the water bath canner
then we're going to put on the heat
we're gonna
this to a boil ten minutes of boiling at
212 degrees the tables for processing
times or again come from the USDA and
you can find them there's this great
website preserving food safely so you
can just go to a asparagus and I'll tell
you you know 10 minutes and a water bath
you know four pints excetera and you'll
notice that I'm using a rat the reason
why that's preferable whenever you can
is because you want the heat to
circulate all the way around I usually
give it a few minutes to rest then we'll
take it out and then it'll cool and as
the jar cools the the cooling stage is
part of the canning stage it completes
the vacuum process and when the vacuum
has done the jar like sucks right down
and seals it and you've created a vacuum
and I'm going to show you the difference
between a jar that's not sealed and
sealed here can you hear that unsealed
then you have the sealed suck down do
you take off the band's you only need
the band to hold down the lid and
processing you don't need it to store
but you see look so that's slow that's
fine then they'll settle down and then
they'll hold for quite a while it takes
a couple of weeks for pickle products to
really mellow in flavor I like to make
pickled asparagus with eggs you sort of
create this ongoing evolving ecosystem
of foods that you can use and and really
the trick to tasty food is seasonal
local there's many homemade components
as possible that does it for another
edition of the pickle club TV I'm
Jennifer - cocky thank you for watching